# Litt rundt hva DFIR er og viktige konsepter/nøkkelord

## Hash
Hash = digital fingerprint of a file

## Forensic image
Forensic image is a exact copy of a system.

## File Signature
File signature is the header data(In Hex) feks: JPG=FF 08
Importance of file signatures: If we can find the find header we can find the
footer and carve the correct data. Ignoe file exstenstions.

## Unallocated Space
Is space that is been allocated but isn't used. You cannot say it belongs to someone, this is important because then you cannot charge anyone for what you find in the unallocated space. Its not the same as unused disk space.

## Physical and logical disc
Physical is the hardware which you can physically touch.
Logical is what's inside the physical disc.
You want the physicalisc because you get all the data, if you transfer data something might happen to the logical data.
If you're on a crime you don't really want the entire PC, you want what's inside it. Memory cards, harddrives etc.
You want to take as much as you can and are allowed to take.

## Anit-Froensics
	1. Stegonography
	2. Slack-space hiding
	3. Overwritten data
	4. Obfuscation
	5. Scripts that auto wipes data if shut down normally.
	6. Etropy testing(Checks for deleted data)
	7. Check what tools has been installed, perhaps a tool that wipes drives is install(CCcleaner).

## Digital Evidence encompasses
* User data: data directly created or modified or accessed by one or more users involved in an investigation
* Metadata associated with user data: data providing context of how, when, who and in what form the user data was created or modified or accessed.
* Activity logs: records of user activity by a system or application or both detailing specific actions conducted by one or more users. 
* System logs: pertain to variations in system behavior from the normal based on one or more actions conducted by the users.

## System eller bruker
### User/Systems/Data: (Intentionally)
* User profiles
* Program files
* Temporary files (temp files)
* Special application-level files. Internet history, e-mail.

### Artefacts: (Generated by the Systems)
* Metadata
* Windows system registry
* Event logs or log files
* Swap files
* Printer spool
* Recycle bin